So welcome back, guys.
So Lenox, like Operating System, provides two basic system calls which allow us to manipulate heap
memory segment of process which will adjust the space.
So these two system calls are PRK and Sparkie.
Right.
So we will discuss the synopsis and how these two system calls work.
So let us first discuss the PR system call.
So the synopsis of the PRK system is very simple.
You can see that Bierko system call expect some address as an argument and it returns an integer.
So Bierko system can expense the heap memory segment such that the breakpoint are of a process, moves
towards higher memory address and points to the address which is provided as an argument.
Right.
And of course, the address which you have supplied as an argument to PRK system call should be a valid
address.
Is system, call it on zero on success and minus one on failure.
So let us start to understand how the system works with the help of an example, so let us suppose that
your program invokes Bierko system called and it provides the following address as an argument to this
Bierko system call.
So let us suppose that this address is some address, which is higher than the break address in the
process, which will address the space.
So when this Bierko system call executes the heat memory segment of the process will expand such that
the breakpoint will be set to this address, which is parsed as an argument to be arcane system called.
So you can see that PRK system call is used by the process to claim more heat memory from the operating
system because of the heat memory segment expands and now the break pointer points to the higher address
in the process, which will address the space.
So while invoking the PRK system called, the question needs to be taken that the address which you
are supplying as an argument to PRK system call is a valid address which belongs to the process which
will address the space.
It should not happen that you are passing the address, which belongs to the stack memory, if you do
that, then the P.A. system will probably fail and it will return minus one.
Now, next, we will going to discuss SB system call so you can see that synopsis of SB aka system call
is again very simple.
The input to SB aka system call is actually an integer.
Right.
And the return value of as we are system call is some address.
So SB aka system call like Biraki System call expensed the heap memory segment such that the breakpoint
or moves towards higher memory by a number of bytes, which is parsed as an argument to Sparkasse system
call.
And what is the return value of, as we are a system called the SB aka system called returns the old
break pointer address.
If SB aka system called succeeds, otherwise it returns null.
So now let us try to understand how Sparkasse system works with the help of an example.
So suppose your process or program makes a system call Esbati with 10 as an argument parsed to the system
called.
So it means that the process is trying to claim 10 bytes of memory from the heap segment of the process,
which will address the space.
So you can see that in the diagram on the right hand side, as a result of invocation of this Sparkasse
system called the Heat Memory segment will expand by 10 bite's.
Right.
So break dash is actually the new value of the pointer, so if the old value of the breakpoint was 600,
then the new value of the pointer will be one hundred and ten.
Right.
So what will be the return value of this, as we system call it, will return a hundred.
That is as Bierko system call returns the old brick pointer address.
Right.
So do not get confused as Bayaka system call returns the old break pointer value and not the new one.
So here is a special case that if you invoke as Biraki with zero as an argument that SB aka system call
will not expand the heap Mahmoudi region, but it simply returns the current value of break pointer,
or in other words, it returns the topmost address of heap memory segment of process which will address
space.
So that was the synopsis of PRK.
And as we are consistent calls now, having understood the concept of PRK and Sparkie, we will now
going to explore that how mallock works.
Remember, Madlock is an API, which is provided by the Standard C library and this API is actually
a wrapper over SB Arcand system call.
So next we will going to discuss the internal implementation of Mallock API.